<u>Recall</u>:
<u>Perfect forwarding</u>
Additional note on template functions: shorthand - auto notation
e.g. 
```c++
auto max(auto x, auto y) {...}
```
is equivalent to:
```C++
template <typename T1, typename T2> auto max(T1 x, T2 y) {...}
```
Just remember: if you see a function with an argument type of `auto`, it is a template.



# Problem 16: Memory management is hard!

No it isn't.

Vectors:
- Can do everything arrays can
- Grow as needed - O(1) amortized time or better
- Clean up automatically when they go out of scope
- Are tuned to minimize copying.
Just use vector, and you'll never have to manage arrays again.
C++'s abstraction facilities make programming <u>easier</u> than in C.

But what about single objects?
```c++
void f() {
	Posn *p = new Posn{1, 2};
	...
	delete p; // must deallocate the Posn!
}
```
First ask: do you really need to use the heap? Could you have used the stack instead?
```c++
void f() {
	Posn p{1, 2};
	...
} // No cleanup necessary
```
Sometimes you do need the heap. Calling delete isn't so bad ...

But consider:
```c++
class BadNews {};
void f() {
	Posn *p = new Posn{1, 2};
	if (___) {throw BadNews;}
	delete p;
}
```
p is leaked if f throws. Unacceptable.
Raising + handing an exception should not corrupt the program - we desire <u>exception safety</u>.

Leaks are a corruption of the program's memory - will eventually degrade performance and crash the program.

If a program cannot recover from an exception without corrupting its memory, what is the point of recovering?

What constitutes exception safety? 3 levels
1. Basic guarantee: - once the exception has been handled, the program is in some valid state. No leaked memory, no corrupted data structures, all invariants maintained.
2. Strong guarantee: - If an exception propagates outside of a function f, then the state of the program will be as if f had not been called. f either succeeds completely or not at all.
3. No-throw guarantee: - the function will <u>never</u> emit an exception and <u>always</u> accomplishes its purpose. Will revisit.

Coming back to f ...
```c++
void f() {
	Posn *p = new Posn{1,2};
	if (___) {
		delete p;
		throw BadNews {};
	}
	delete p;
}
```
duplicate effort! memory management is hard!

Want to guarantee that delete p; happens no matter what.
What guarantees does C++ offer? Only one: 
destructors for stack-allocated objects will be called when they go out of scope.

So - create a class with a destructor that deletes the pointer.
```c++
template <typename T> class unique_ptr {
	T *p;
public:
	unique_ptr(T *p): p{p} { }
	~unique_ptr() {delete p;}
	T *get() const {return p;}
	...
};

void f() {
	unique_ptr<Posn> p {new Posn{1, 2}};
	if (____) throw BadNews;
}
```
That's it - <u>less</u> memory management than we started with!
Using unique_ptr - can use get to fetch the pointer.
Better - make unique_ptr act like a pointer.
```c++
template <typename T> class unique_ptr {
	T *p;
public:
	 ...
	 T &operator*() const {
		return *p; 
	}

	T *operator->() {
		return p;
	}

	explicit operator bool() const {return p;}
};

void f() {
	unique_ptr<Posn> p {new Posn{1, 2}};
	cout << p->x << ' ' << p->y << endl;
}
```


<u>But consider</u>:
```c++
unique_ptr<Posn> p {new Posn{1, 2}};
unique_ptr<Posn> q = p;
```
Two pointers to the same object! Can't both delete it. UB.

<u>Solution</u>:
Copying unique_ptrs is not allowed. Moving OK though.
```c++
template <typename T> class unique_ptr {
	...
public:
	unique_ptr(const unique_ptr &other) = delete;
	unique_ptr &operator=(const unique_ptr &other) = delete;
	
	unique_ptr(unique_ptr &&other): p{other.p} {other.p = nullptr;}
	unique_ptr &operator=(unique_ptr &&other) {
		std::swap(p, other.p);
		return *this;
	}
}
```
<u>Note</u>: this is how copying streams is prevented.

Emplacement for unique_ptrs:
```c++
template <typename T, typename ... Args> 
unique_ptr<T> make_unique(Args && ... args) {
	return unique_ptr<T> {new T {std::forward<Args>(args) ...}};
}

// E.g.
auto p = make_unique<Posn>(1, 2);
```

unique_ptr is an example of the C++ idiom, <u>Resource Acquisition Is Initialization</u> (RAII)
- Any resource that must be properly released (memory, file handles, etc.) should be wrapped in a stack-allocated object whose destructor frees it.
e.g. unique_ptr, ifstream 
-Acquire the resource when the object is initialized.
-Release it when the object's destructor runs.